# Ark

Ark is a set of work-in-progress information distributions intended for offline computers. This repo contains scripts that download and prepare the distribution for deployment and a simple script for accessing the content.

The primary scoring criteria for inclusion are potential offline utility and/or historical notability. Inclusion does not necessarily imply endorsement. Please contact us to nominate additional information.

## Distributions

  * Ark Scroll (<= 2MB compressed)
  * Ark Codex (<= 4MB compressed)
  * Ark Lite (<= 8MB) (includes Ark Codex)
  * Ark Medium (<= 4GB) (includes Ark Lite)
  * Ark Heavy (>= 256GB) (includes Ark Medium) [not yet available]

### Ark Scroll

The Ark Scroll is a condensed collection of knowledge generated by AI and intended to be useful to humans in the future if other sources of information were not available. It contains topic summaries, supplemental knowledge, and ASCII images.

The Ark Scroll is a single text file (see `data/scroll.gz`).

### Ark Codex

The Ark Codex is a condensed collection of knowledge generated by AI and intended to be useful to humans in the future if other sources of information were not available. It contains topic summaries, supplemental knowledge, and compressed low-resolution images.

The Ark Codex is organized as several hundred topic directories (see `data/arklite/codex.tgz`).

### Ark Lite

Ark Lite is intended to fit on an [Ebenstahl](https://github.com/machdyne/ebenstahl) with 8MB of [FRAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferroelectric_RAM).

Ark Lite contains the Ark Codex plus additional hand-selected texts. (see `data/arklite`)

### Ark Medium

Ark Medium is intended to fit on a 4GB partition of a MicroSD card or a DVD.

This is the list of currently included information:

  * Ark Scroll
  * Ark Lite (including Ark Codex)
  * Project Gutenberg CD-ROM (~600 books) [2003]
  * Wikipedia (~10K "vital" articles) [2008]
  * CIA World Factbook with world map images [2010]
  * MedlinePlus Health Topics [2024]

### Ark Heavy

Ark Heavy is intended to fit on a ~$20 MicroSD card and the amount of information included may increase as storage costs fall.

Ark Heavy not yet released.

## Using Ark Lite

Copy data/arklite to /opt/ark/arklite.

## Building Ark Medium

### Install Prerequisties

```
$ sudo apt install wget 7z git-lfs links
```

### Download & Process

```
$ . scripts/build.sh
```

The results will be in the ark directory, the build directory can be deleted.

### Use

The `ark` script is included for browsing and reading the content.

```
$ . scripts/ark browse wp 
$ . scripts/ark search pg moby
$ . scripts/ark read pg 355
```

### Install

#### Generic Installation

The following commands will copy the data to `/opt/ark` and install the `ark` script:

```
$ chmod +x scripts/ark
$ sudo cp scripts/ark /usr/local/bin
$ sudo mkdir -p /opt/ark
$ sudo cp -R ark/* /opt/ark
```

If you want to install the data in another location, you'll need to edit the ARKDIR variable at the top of `ark` script.

#### Kakao Linux

If using Ark with [Kakao Linux](https://github.com/machdyne/kakao) you should copy the data to your Ark partition:

```
$ mount /dev/sdX4 /mnt
$ cp -R ark/* /mnt
$ sync
```

You can then use the `ark` command while running Kakao to browse and read the content.

## License

This repo including the documentation, scripts and metadata not included below are released under the Lone Dynamics Open License (which is substantially similar to the BSD-1-Clause license).

The content from Wikipedia is redistributed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL).

The content from MedlinePlus is product of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), which is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and is believed to be in the public domain.

The content from Project Gutenberg and other sources is believed to be in the public domain, but we make no guarantees that this is the case and it is up to you to verify copyright status and to understand the copyright laws in your country.
